feat: ASP0028 diagnostic docs (#34084)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/diagnostics/asp0028.md

---
title: "ASP0028: ## Analyzer to suggest using IPAddress.IPv6Any instead of IPAddress.Any if applicable" 
ms.date: 11/11/2024
description: "Learn about analysis rule ASP0028: Consider using IPAddress.IPv6Any instead of IPAddress.Any"
author: deaglegross
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-10.0'
ms.author: deaglegross
uid: diagnostics/asp0028
---
# ASP0028: Consider using `IPAddress.IPv6Any` instead of `IPAddress.Any`

|                                     | Value        |
| -                                   | -            |
| **Rule ID**                         | ASP0028      |
| **Category**                        | Usage        |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking |

## Cause

> On the server machine that supports IPv6, listening to `Any`, rather than `IPv6Any` will either not work or be slower than necessary, because of the [underlying System types implementation](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/82404).
> 
> At the moment of current article publishing, in case of HTTP/1.x or HTTP/2.0 a name like `localhost` will resolve to `[::1]`, which won't be accepted by the server, forcing a retry with `127.0.0.1` (i.e. failed attempt before each connection).
> 
> This usage will be reported with a diagnostic message:
> ```csharp
> .UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
> { 
>     options.Listen(IPAddress.Any, ...);
> })
> ```
> 
> ## Rule description
> 
> The recommended way is to setup Kestrel to listen on `IPv6Any`.
> 
> ## How to fix violations
> 
> For the reported code
> ```csharp
> .UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
> { 
>     options.Listen(IPAddress.Any, ...);
> })
> ```
> 
> One can either explicitly change usage to `IPv6Any`:
> ```csharp
> .UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
> { 
>     options.Listen(IPAddress.IPv6Any, ...);
> })
> ```
> 
> or use another invocation - `options.ListenAnyIP()` without specifying any argument explicitly:
> ```csharp
> .UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
> { 
>     options.ListenAnyIP(...);
> })
> ```
> 
> ## When to suppress warnings
> 
> The severity level of this diagnostic is Information. You can suppress warnings if your intention is to disable `IPv6` usage completely on the server. 
> 
> You can disable IPv6 either system-wide, or for .NET only via the [AppCtx switch or environment variable](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/dotnet-6-networking-improvements/#an-option-to-globally-disable-ipv6)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`IPv6Any` is preferred to `Any`, support because `Any` is slower than `IPv6Any`. In some cases, `Any` may not work at all. `Any` has performance problems due to the [underlying System types implementation](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/82404).

`127.0.0.1` is the IPv4 loopback address. `::1` is the IPv6 loopback address. `Any` is the wildcard address for both IPv4 and IPv6. `IPv6Any` is the wildcard address for IPv6 only.

Currently, when using  HTTP/1.x or HTTP/2.0:

* `localhost` resolve to `[::1]`.
* `[::1]` isn't accepted by the server, which forces a retry using `127.0.0.1`, and the cycle continues.

Using `Any` with the preceding conditions is reported with a diagnostic message:

```csharp
.UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
{ 
    options.Listen(IPAddress.Any, ...);
})
```

## Rule description

The recommended way to configure Kestrel to listen for incoming connections on all available IPv6 network interfaces is with `IPv6Any`.

## How to fix violations

For the problematic code, replace `Any` with `IPv6Any`:

```diff
.UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
{ 
-   options.Listen(IPAddress.Any, ...);
+   options.Listen(IPAddress.IPv6Any, ...);
})
```

Alternatively, use the `ListenAnyIP` method without specifying any argument:

```diff
.UseKestrel().ConfigureKestrel(options =>
{ 
-   options.Listen(IPAddress.Any, ...);
+   options.ListenAnyIP(...);
})
```

## When to suppress warnings

The ASP0028 diagnostic has a Information level severity. Suppress warnings if your intention is to disable `IPv6` usage completely on the server, although this comes with the risk of the preformance problems mentions in this article

`IPv6` can be disabled either system-wide, or for .NET only via the [AppCtx switch or environment variable](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/dotnet-6-networking-improvements/#an-option-to-globally-disable-ipv6)

```
